<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="ever-to-be" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ever to Be</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My far cry, though no one should echo,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though no one to listen should stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall dare with my burden the darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I shall not retreat from this land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though I'm hurled 'neath the feet of the millions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who struggle their places to keep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sea-nymphs still bathe with my Fancy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the Dryads still sweeten my sleep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though I'm crushed, cast away and forgotten,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though I'm buried in the dust of their cars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I can see through their madness above me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I can feel the quick pulse of the stars;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though my head be the foot-stool of tyrants,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though my back be a step to their throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I still dwell with the kings of Orion</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I walk with the sun-queen alone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though the fire of my youth should consume me,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though my body a brimstone should be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I can draw on the clouds for their water</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And behold! I've of water a sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though roofless, and friendless, and hopeless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And loveless, and godless I stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The waves of my Life shall continue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To murmur and laugh on the Strand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="upon-the-peak-of-sanneen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Upon the Peak of Sanneen</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My soul and I, upon the peak</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Sanneen grim and grey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sat musing in the twilight of</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A sombre summer day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"Great Saturn and the Moon are gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Together o'er the sea;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But will great Saturn e'er return</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Should he elope with thee?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ah well, who knows? when thou art gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I, too, shall sink within the brine,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I, too, shall sail above this peak</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And signal yonder groves of pine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Behold the melancholy sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of this forgotten land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On this side are the valleys bleak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On this, the desert sand."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"I hear the moaning of the wind,"</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My sad companion said;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"The snow is gathering in me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the night is overhead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Long have we dwelt together, friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In our sweet ennui;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But were I now to take my leave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Alas, what would I be?"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"O, think not of departing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah, too young I am to die;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll find the magic wings; and there</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Still hangs a friendly sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let us above these pines, and clouds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And scents awhile yet dwell;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where wouldst thou go, if thou wert now</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To sigh a last farewell?"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou seest the busy elements</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dissolving one by one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The souls that are acquitted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the all-absorbing sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let's sing the song of darkness then;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy prison is the Whole;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What canst thou do, where wilt thou go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What wilt thou be, my Soul?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the air that weighs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon the rising dust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the fog that chokes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The air in savage lust.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the clouds that block</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The smoke's way to a star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor linger in the guilty tears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of clouds before the bar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the rain that taunts</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The all-devouring sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Itself destroying many a nest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In bush and rock and tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the thunder's tongue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Spell-binding all the spheres;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor wouldst thou be the lightning blade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That stabs and disappears.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the dew that falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Alike on thorn and flower;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor even the morning zephyr</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That blows o'er den and bower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wouldst not be the virgin snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Set free from yonder clouds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only to melt beneath the feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of surging human crowds."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"No! none of these," my Soul replied;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"I'll shiver ever thrall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O let me rise, for I would be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sky above them all."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-philistine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Philistine</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The cricket to the corn-crake came one day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shivering, yet buzzing in his wanton way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And said: "I'm slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By hunger, brother, turn thou not from me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'Tis winter, and I only beg of thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A little grain."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The corn-crake grinned and said in tone sublime:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Where wert thou hidden in the harvest time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thou dinning drone?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why didst thou not come with us to the fields</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To gather something for thy winter meals</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of what had grown?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"O, I was entertaining with my rhymes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vineyards, and the fig trees, and the thymes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The summer long."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"No then," replied the corn-crake, "not a seed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have I for such as thou; go home and feed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Upon thy Song."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="my-bornoose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Bornoose</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Into this world they tell me I was sent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrapt in a bornoose, which was rudely rent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flung away, by her who first didst touch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My steaming flesh; I never loved her much,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The surly, stolid, sordid, spectral hag:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For never would my star of fortune lag—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No dwarf of earth to oppose my will would dare—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If my sebaceous bornoose she did spare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if around my neck, the <i>ajouz</i> says,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It hung, locked in a charm, for twenty days.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ever since the amulet was torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The curse of gods and jinn and men I've worn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to my flesh it stuck—a Nessus shirt—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despite the oozing blood, and not spurt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of power, alas! is left me to control</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stinging tongue of an avenging soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-spring-dirge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Spring Dirge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Sad, sad, sad—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain thou comest, Spring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sad, sad, sad—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In vain thy birds all sing:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Perfumeless is thy rose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thy breeze, which softly blows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Disturbs my sea of woes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay, Death is on the wing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gone, gone, gone—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Go seek her, mocking Spring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gone, gone, gone—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Aside thy garlands fling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Destroy thy laughing bower;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Call back an April shower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To weep with me this hour:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He came, not reckoning.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Love, love, love—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What sendest thou with Spring?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love, love, love—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What tidings these birds bring!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">They tell me they can hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thee, in a higher sphere;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But can that dry a tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or give my wish a wing?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fardi-wa-nafli" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="ar-Latn">Fardi wa Nafli</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">This was written in the hospital where Mr. Rihani's sister suffered for more than two years. She was taken sick not long before the day appointed for her wedding.</p>
			</header>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>"Here she is: O take her not away so soon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spare her youth—the fatal cup from her withhold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let her groan within my arms in life's forenoon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let me still my soul within her eyes unfold."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of Love! my faith in thee is not yet gray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grant that she may walk again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Free from suffering and pain—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give her life to see the altar's light one day.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>In the night, before the day that never came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the way with poppies and gardenias strewn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her music and her torch's holy flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She was struck and never since saw sun or moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of Light! refuse her not another ray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her bridal garment joins with me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In beseeching, begging thee—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give her life to see the altar's light one day.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>All the sorrow earth contains I can support,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All the agony and pain I can endure;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Years of misery will seem surprising short,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If to me thou leav'st her, though without a cure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my dreams before thy throne, O God, I slay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These my offerings let be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These my sacrifice to thee—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give her life to see the altar's light one day.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>"Hurry here! O get the doctors—call the nurse—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Call the priest—be quick—some more digitaline—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is here, alas! before you all—a hearse."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Death has passed us by; take up the violin!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Thy heart my music fain would find its way;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Every sound Thy grace would earn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let it not as sad return—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give her life to see the altar's light one day.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Every wound and every sigh and groan and tear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Every drop of Saada's melting flesh and hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now ascend, wrapt in this music, pale and blear—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Around Thy throne, in gyves of pain, they blindly grope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What remains, what's gone of her before Thee lay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Faith and Doubt are at Thy door—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mother, brother, pray, implore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Give her life to see the altar's light one day.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="adele" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Adele</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Adele! a name that kindled in the breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of France's first-born of the fairest Muse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A flame in which a thousand colors fuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shame the April rainbows of the West;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I can only stand upon the crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Song's most sacred Mount and bring excuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I have begged, and since the gods refuse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I steal, and with the theft I thee invest,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A Sun or Moon of Song for all my oceans</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of purest love, an ornament at best,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A bunch of stars—a wreath for my emotions;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But if the gods with sisters dear are blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To me they all must come in joy or sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From me they all must steal, or beg, or borrow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nectar-and-blood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nectar and Blood</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>If I should worship at thine ancient shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where thy good sons, incensed by love of war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now clamor, as their fathers did of yore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I should sacrifice what is not mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor any living god's, nor even thine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If for the sake of honor I must pour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This cup of life upon thy barren shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How will it fare then with my love divine?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No! let thy sons go forth to burn and slay:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them for love of thee and glory smear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tear the love of all that's pure and dear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them this loveless love in rage display;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I can not join them; no, I can not cheer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they beneath my window pass to-day.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What care I for the tears the maudlin crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheds o'er my bier—for praise of Church and State—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For glory that remains within the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of worldly things—for men's esteem avowed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For freedom that is not with love endowed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fame that lingers oft and comes too late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When these the sorrow of my love create</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And haunt her with the shadow of my shroud?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How cowardly, self-centered have I grown—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How dead to true and noble feelings all?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why not, when they the human soul enthrall—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why not, when they the beast in man enthrone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cling to love, and with love I will fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unwept, unsung, unhonored and unknown.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What will these kings and war-lords of the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all their ministers of murder fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do with their arms and fleets—all tools of hell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If every son of man resolve to stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-wielding, king-like, in his home the wand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beside the ones he loves and honors well?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can force this gentle host of peace compel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When loving hearts their amber wings expand?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O love, though hounded, outlawed we may be—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though Slander, dagger-drawn, be on our trail—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though Hatred with her hydra tongues should rail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At us, and though left sinking in the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ostracism, ay, never will I quail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But will now and forever cling to thee.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="resurrection" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Resurrection</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The ghost of Winter stalks amidst the boughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Spring and drags along his icy shroud;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The corn flowers and the wheat, with broken vows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are now beneath the storm untimely bowed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Winter, thou wert buried on the hills;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thine epitaph was written with melted snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy skeleton is in the barren rills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where once thy silvery life-blood used to flow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Why visitest the glimpses of the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So soon, what message bring'st thou from the dead?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why rudely interrupt the children's fun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And havoc among the Guests of Summer spread?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Behold, the branches shiver, the blossoms fall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lilac in the leaves a shelter seeks;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy savage winds the Queen of May appal,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They pale with summer's dust her rosy cheeks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Withhold the solemn music of thy gale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the golden notes of Spring are spun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The opera in the trees is but begun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, drown it not with thy benighted wail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For thee May's winged madonnas will not sing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor in thy presence will they now appear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Begone, that their sweet voices we may hear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Begone, the world to-day belongs to Spring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="disarmed-desire" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Disarmed Desire</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, how the light drifts from the hemlock grove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How in the night disarmed Desires do rove!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A sister to the dumb hydrangea thou,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mystery born of the Then and Now.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The color on thy clouded face—ah me!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is't from the embers that still burn in thee?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Has not the forge of suffering robbed thee of</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flame with which weak mortals feed their love?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wilt thou, no longer fancying the light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conjure a virgin flame from darkest night?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And feed it with the salvias of a soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That would, but yet—alas! she seeks the Whole.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hand that broke the screen, the heart that lied,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where are they? Come, the path of truth is wide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The silvery cataracts of roaring rills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meander in the shadows of the hills;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And their bass music,—does it not arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From that descent that leads up to the skies?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O how disarmed Desire uprises, how—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does not the darkness crown the Lightning's brow?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet how I wish, yet how I shrink, when I</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behold thee—ah, she's ever in mine eye!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If thy pink, blue and golden hues disclose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The secret, might not that undo the rose?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou sister to the dumb hydrangea, when</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will all thy sombre musings rise again?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, how the light drifts from the hemlock grove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How in the night disarmed Desires do rove!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-better-woe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Better Woe</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of all my desert days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art the only one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon whose sandy face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A strip of pleasure's foliage trembling grows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of all the winding ways.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which with my rapture shone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But one can I retrace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there the barren breast of beauty glows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of all the dread desires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That beat within me still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One shakes the sacred fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hurls me into the arms of her below;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But oh, how life suspires—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How soon after the thrill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of joy I shudder, I hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My murmuring soul pine for a better woe.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-first-and-last" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The First and Last</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O kiss me now; the end is near</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bright beginning; kiss me, dear.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would not that thou shouldst one day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In bitter thought remembering say:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"When in the high tide of our bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon these lips I slew the kiss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That should have lived."</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i11">The kiss I fear—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poison, ah, the lie, my dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fear not; O kiss me whilst I can't</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Refuse; am I to-morrow thine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wilt thou be near me when I pant?</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>I shall not go; thou wilt not pine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet thoughts!—Alas, the first, the last!</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, nay! I cling to thee: the past</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is dying in the lap of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In which our star is shining bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The fingers in the shadow, there!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What are they weaving? Look, a shroud!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come, purse thy lips; do not despair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take hold my hand and speak aloud.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No, no! For whom that shroud, for whom?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not for our love—not for our joy?</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Then seal thou with thy lips my doom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Av, with a kiss this life destroy!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-the-meadow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In the Meadow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The shadow of thy curls I see</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon thy lovely face;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And just a little wish is mine—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The shadow to embrace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On thy black and silken tresses,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah, one longs to feast the sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the shadows of their beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hanging on thy cheeks of light,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From my lips, exact a tribute,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which I pay here in this meadow:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blush not, my most winsome maiden;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I have only kissed the shadow.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="o-sweet-sometime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">O, Sweet Sometime</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, sweet Sometime, the gardens bloom the while I wait;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each moment melts a tear of joy before thy gate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is thy pleasure that I burn,—it is my fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O, sweet Sometime!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, when the moment in this interval is born.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When through this sleeping splendor breaks the lingering morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when thy sensual silence laughs my noise to scorn—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O, sweet Sometime!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Spare me the vacant moment yet,—O just awhile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Expectancy, thy sweetest daughter, will beguile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My yearning hours; the shades reflected by her smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Are now my haunts, O sweet Sometime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The waiting while, O sweet Sometime, I can enjoy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy heralding shadows every beating pang destroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with their breath of musk and myrrh my soul they cloy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O, sweet Sometime!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I tremble, I forget, I throb when once I hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The dying interval announcing thou are near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A touch, a groan, a kiss and thou wilt disappear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">With bitten lip, O, sweet Sometime!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then the memory—O, how it will oppress!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far sweeter is Expectancy—ah, let me press</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vigor from her limbs to mine; I'll yet caress</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The waiting while, O, sweet Sometime!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-bed-of-flame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Bed of Flame</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I saw one day on the horizon grey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As with my load I wandered near the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A whiff of smoke embrace the sleeping sun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And just as their enchantment had begun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A lonely cloud that roved above the lea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Passed by their couch and hid them from the day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I saw this and my soul, long silent, cried:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Would that I were the whiff of smoke</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Now sleeping with the sun!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In beds of flame, how often was I tried,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How often have I 'neath the stroke</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of God or Satan shone!"</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sister-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sister of Death</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ah, talk to me of something else, I pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'm weary of the dreams that bring nor sleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor rest, nor love, nor something from the deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where buried are the gods of yesterday;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, talk to me of Death that takes away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little sorrows, as they hide and peep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little joys, as they disport and leap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My little vanities, my budless May.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The burden of my virtues and my sins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The burden of authority that grins</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At every effort, ah, the burden kills;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know that Death a Sister hath, but where,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where can I find thee, Love, when shall I share</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweetness of the silence of the hills?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="retribution" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Retribution</h2>
			<p>
				<span>How I did hold in deep contempt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The slaves and queens of love!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How I disguised my feelings when</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I met a deer or a dove!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How I did smile and sniff and rail</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At lovers young and old;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How I denied, in days gone by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O love, thy charms untold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now, alas! I find myself</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In chains at Beauty's shrine:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chains whose power I have denied</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Are sapping, sapping mine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-thine-eyes-whisper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Let Thine Eyes Whisper</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Grieve not, for I am near thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Sigh not, for I can hear thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wash from thy heart all memory of past wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Doubt not that doubts besmear thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Speak not, for I do fear thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let thine eyes whisper love's conciling song.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lilatu-laili" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="ar-Latn">Lilatu Laili</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At night on the radiant Rialto,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">By the stars in their houses of glass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I strolled with my soul in my pocket</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And prayed that my night might not pass;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have seen 'neath the high heels of Beauty</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My heart and my soul and my shame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That form! O, how often it lured me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And how often I lost in the game!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And how often I walked in the shadow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of a Laila a mile and a mile!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the rapture and bliss of a vision</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would end in a great gush of bile.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the hints that her garment would whisper</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I have listened but I would not dare;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have seen every one of my fancies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Retreat in the dark of her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have wished that each building around us</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was a cedar, a poplar, a pine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the men and the women were statues,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the rain that was falling was wine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the lights were ethereal flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That the cars were the nooks in the wood,–</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>"O, enough!" she exclaimed as she kissed me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"This attic and couch are as good."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="midnight-mood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Midnight Mood</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There's one upon whose youthful breast I fain would die:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My soul upon her lingering lips through mine I'd pour</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In torrents that would reach and thrill Love's every shore—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In floods that drown the earth and rise to drown the sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But how can I? Alas, the leaves must shield the flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And silent see her proffering to the butterfly</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her cheeks, her honeyed lips, her soul,—O, how can I?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In all the worlds, to change my being, is there no power?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How oft I rise at night to probe the human laws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My beating temples all my waking hours recording!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And nor solution, nor repose my task affording.—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How oft my carnal silence cries for the bliss that was!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bliss that generous nature gives, that man denies—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A bliss that's chained in idle words and damned codes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And creeds and customs creeping in their dark abodes—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bliss that's lost within an endless maze of lies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pray, tell me, must the North Wind blow and sweep by rule?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Must he the virgin ponds and springs and rills avoid?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">See how the ocean, panting, rising, overjoyed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Holds out her arms to him,—why not the limpid pool?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thou, O human Ocean,—would that I could give</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In equal measure, when beneath me thou art parting!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O, generous, fiery soul, in love though I am wanting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My flesh, within thy passion's hearth, will glow and live.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou art the twilight; I'm the dawn; yet we shall meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And flood the firmament with fire and rainbow beauty.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No unfed sun or moon shall rob us of our booty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if the gods should frown,—is not rebellion sweet?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But ah, live Twilight! why cannot the Dawn be true?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why can't I quaff from thy sad lips, as thou, from mine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Why can't this heart, forgetting once, as well be thine?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How can I my most holy passion tame, subdue?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That youthful breast, imprisoned, I see through thine own;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Those Eastern eyes cannot be hidden by thy flame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That form, as I am in thine arms—O, do not blame—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In mine I fancy,—let me die in shame alone!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thy-smile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thy Smile</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Outside the gates of night, above the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where breatheth none but gods, where light alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forever rules from his star-studded throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Melancholy never reaches noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where the Pleiades their harps attune,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There in the centre of the lightning zone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the zephyr which the storm hath sown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou first wert formed with pleasure to commune.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now in Pleasure's world, upon the face</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of bright and gay Bohemia's fairest child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The zephyr dallies with the lightning flash;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The smile divine, as well the subtle grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are deeply there impressed, by naught defiled—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There joy's received as well as paid in cash.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="unadorned" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Unadorned</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Regardless of the cries of priests and sages</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I strove to give my bleeding soul her wages;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And each embrace or memory of one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is worth to me the treasures of the ages,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is worth to me the treasures of the ages.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each shadow of a kiss or fond embrace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down in the depth of solitude I trace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And in the corners of my darkest den</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fallen gods of pleasure find a place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fallen gods of pleasure find a place.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And though knee-deep I find myself in hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though the flames around my checks should swell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I shall not loose my grip on Allah's throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not fall alone, I know full well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shall not fall alone, I know full well.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dissolution" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dissolution</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I languish in thy penetrating clasp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just as a bird entangled on a bough</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Shaken by the wind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet here would I be happy in the grasp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of death; but in thy breast I'm hidden now,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And death is blind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I melt beneath thy storm of kisses, dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just as the gum upon the almond tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of melting when alone and far from thee:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Melts 'neath the rain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet would I melt to-night than live in fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">O, storm again!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-serenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Serenade</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The moon hath said her sad good-bye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sleeping queen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the stars are wondering why</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou art unseen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold! abashed, they take to flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As through the casement breaks thy light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Arise, my dawn, arise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Arise, my queen serene!</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The field of heaven is all thine own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My peerless star,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just as my heart is thine alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be near or far.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So let thy face adorn the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flood it with thy dazzling light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Arise, my queen, arise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Arise, to my guitar!</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The vaults above all vacant seem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sweetest flower;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for thy scent, the cherubim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long at this hour.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A moment from thy sweet dream part,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though in that dream be wove my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Arise, my queen, arise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Let fall thy perfume shower.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-brass-bed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Brass Bed</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I love thy color and thy symmetry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love the art that wrought thy glittering arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy canopy, thy satin portieres too;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love the silks and feathers on thy breast—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cushions and the pillows and the quilts:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I love thine every part.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet still more do I love to rest in thee—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dream of art's perfection in thy frame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of paths as smooth, as shining as thy limbs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of scenes as exquisite as thy coils;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of nooks as warm as thine hospitable bosom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As cool and as refreshing as thy veinless naked arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I dream of all beneath thy soothing mantle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But O, I love my dreams much more than thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And one sad soul much more than all my dreams.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If thou hadst but an eye to see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To look upon the guest that lay upon thy floor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath thy silken ceiling!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, hadst thou but an ear to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The plaintive chirpings of this swallow-soul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Couldst thou but feel her forehead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Moistened with the sweat of hope and pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For forty moons she lay within thine arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rubbing her erstwhile rosy cheeks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the ulcers of Ayoub of yore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Couldst thou but see, O Bed of Brass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Couldst thou but hear, couldst thou but feel,—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of what use all thy showy stuff—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy glittering brass, the filigree of art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy floor of down and feather cushions all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy snow-white mantles, satin tapestries?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Beauty and Pain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Death will not come with thee, O Pain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Life will not come with thee, O Beauty!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fires of hell are but a taper's flame compared to this.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy guest, O Bed of Brass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Looks on thee with a yearning glance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet her soul, bearing the torch of Pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is searching all the worlds for Death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="three-golden-threads" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Three Golden Threads</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(After de Lisle.)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Like yonder swallow, I would soar away,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the sea, far from this buzzing mart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But how can I? A cruel, little fay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has fettered with three golden threads my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her honeyed tongue the one; her eyes the other;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The third her lips; and that completes her art.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No fruits from other gardens can I gather,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For she has tied with golden threads my heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O, how I would asunder rend my chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And from the tears and pangs of love depart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, no! 'tis better that I die in pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than break the golden threads of my poor heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="independent-blossoms" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Independent Blossoms</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When the spring boughs were told</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon the rose will unfold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Herself in the bower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of which she is queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their blossoms, beguiling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sad leaves, said smiling:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"No slaves to a flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Have we ever been."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our lords are the birds.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they love not in words;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They sing when we smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And sob when we fall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lord is the liar—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thief or the buyer—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who smells her the while</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">She lives, and that's all.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-god-of-my-goddess" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The God of My Goddess</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The old gods and their slaves I've deserted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The new gods I've shunned at first sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my god is the god of the goddess</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That presides at my feast of delight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But once, when the dark moment lingered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I questioned the god she adores;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his throne I implored her to lead me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And, behold! I'm the god she implores.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-peasants-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Peasant's Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, thou, who loved me once,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From thy Pagoda glance;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shoot down a poisoned lance:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">All's well that comes from thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Look back, look down once more;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dear was to thee this shore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see thee nevermore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Beneath the olive tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Remains my station low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whilst thou dost greater grow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ah, fate hath struck the blow</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">That parted thee and me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How can I bear my fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How can I loveless wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this most sorry state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">When thou art far and free?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Far from the soul that swore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On love's abysmal door</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cling forevermore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">To none on earth but thee;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Free from the sacred plight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which, to dispel the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou madest, when I quite</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Fell near thy bended knee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dost thou not still remember</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love's May and Love's December?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both burned their sacred ember</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">In our sweet company.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dost hear the echoes fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within thy gilded hall?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dost thou not ever recall</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The day thou wert like me?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When all thy gardens bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look out into the gloom;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There does the flame consume</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thy budless lilac tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There often thou didst play</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A-mindless of the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When soul to soul would say:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">"No more of thee and me."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when withers thy rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Throw to the wind that blows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This way a leaf; who knows</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">What therein I can see.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And till my course is run</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I'll count them one by one—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These leaves; and may the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Of joy ne'er set on thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="her-first-sorrow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Her First Sorrow</h2>
			<p>
				<span>'T is but a score of hours when he didst swear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sorrow and my joy to share,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Despite the fates, fore'er;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now he's gone to cash again his lie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Others his shame with me will wear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Why should I die?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Last night his lips my very feet didst burn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His kisses dropt, my love to earn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whichever way he'd turn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now he's gone another soul to rob.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Another heart to lure and spurn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Why should I sob?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He did not kiss me when he said good-bye;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I let him go, not asking why,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor do I for him sigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He's gone another virgin breast to tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He's gone on other lips to die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Why should I care?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-nocturn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Nocturn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Upon the face of darkness beams my soul—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nearby, behind the curtains of my sight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And 'round it weary waves of wonder roll—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad seas of color o'er dead seas of light:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here is no Space, no Time—nor day nor night—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here is the boundless, undiminished Whole—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Here is my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here is no love that hides beneath its shoal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sandix that can redden a sea of years;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here is no lust that lies to Beauty's mole</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And draws from eyes of flint a flood of tears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here is no disenchantment and no fears—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No blasted hopes, no jaunty joy, no dole—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Here is my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now lost in clay and water; now the Whole</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is lost within me: sea and earth and sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I dismiss from my presence, as I roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My lids and lo, the lord of night am I.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the airless wilderness I fly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here is no vain desire, no galling goal—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Here is my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In Eternity, shod with the hoary noul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of deathless Death—in dim and shimmering shades</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of soilless vales that bosom and cajole</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The crystal flowers dropping from cloud-cascades;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here in the grove of myriad colonnades</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of jet and pearl and amber I now stroll—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Here is my soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="saada" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Saada</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long hast thou suffered, sister of my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Still thou art</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Fair to see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy pains thou entertainest with thy song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">But how long</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Will this be?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The seasons all have come and gone, my dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">But thy cheer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Still abides.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I ask which of thy moan or song is best</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And thou sayst:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">"God decides."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I feel the ebbing of the undertone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of thy moan</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In thy song;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How long will tears and irony compete</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For thee, Sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">O, how long?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When wilt thou, Baby dear, with nimble feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Run to greet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Me at the door?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When wilt thou, Saada, walk again with me</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Near the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">As before?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O sister, how I wish to see thee run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">On the sands!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The singing breakers and the smiling beach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To thee reach</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Out their hands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The light of day is longing for thy face</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And the grace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Of thy form;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O how I wish to see thee, Noor-ul-Ain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Caught again</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In the storm!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="stolen-salvias" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Stolen Salvias</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O, bleeding blossoms, tell, were my heart there—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">There in your bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would that sweet thief that stole you unaware</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Have stolen it instead?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Come with me, scarlet salvias, to your home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">We are not late;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love in the moonlight there again will roam—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">There let us wait.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I still remember when one night she crowned</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Me with the stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plucked from your scarlet sky—she would astound</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The kings of Mars.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She then would slay me—wash the face of night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">With my bold blood—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay, she would show that yours is not as bright</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And not as good.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, scarlet salvias, why should I refuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">When I'm with you?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why should I chill my lady, if she choose</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">To steal me too?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jealousy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jealousy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The violets their soft, dark lashes part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While robins serenade them far and near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the anemone, with ebon heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And blood-shot eyes, pretends she does not hear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The violets invite the nightingale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose carols fall in dew upon their bed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the hydrangea, as saffron pale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Holds high above the wall her nodding head.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="beneath-the-salvias" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Beneath the Salvias</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Beneath the salvias, where some angel slew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The favors that were granted by his god,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart is hidden; let thy feet be shod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With feathers plucked from my wings of crimson hue.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When here again thou might'st be wandering through;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Look not above; I'm breathing in the sod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A-mindless of the years, 'neath which I'm trod—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Spring birds' song, or shrieks of Winter's crew.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here let me sleep, my lady: wake me not;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here let me gather, hidden from the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun, the strength to rise again and see;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No sweeter, dearer, more enchanting spot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is there for my sick heart; O, not so soon—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awake me not—O, let me dream of thee.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gone-with-the-swallows" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gone with the Swallows</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Must I convey at last the news to thee?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must I now mourn the love that lived in me?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gone with the autumn, with the dying year.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gone with the kisses that are yet so near!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gone with the swallows somewhere o'er the sea!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with the Spring will he again</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Return, will he with me remain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Must I till then, remembering naught,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Forgetting all that love had brought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Grope in the shadows of the slain?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Must I forget the day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">That took my love away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And all the happy hours</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">That reared for him their towers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And crowned him with the flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of all the queens of May?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Must I alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">My once my own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">In my retreat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">The new year greet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">And winter meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And winds hear moan?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Not yet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Can I</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Forget;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">But why</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">One clings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">And sings</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i7">To things</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">That die?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-the-sonnet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To the Sonnet</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Though cribbed and gyved, thou canst within thy walls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unfold a wondrous wealth of worlds unseen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flood the soul's abyss with moon-light sheen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As well as darken passions' gilded halls;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy fourteen outlets are so many falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From which gush out the prisoned joy, or spleen—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The silvery cascades, or the billows green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And either a sea of bliss or grief recalls.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou goddess of the gems of Fancy's deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though few thy facets, they reflect the whole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of inner-self in multi-shaded hues;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art the couch of dreams that never sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou art the phoenix of the poet's soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As well the crystal palace of his muse.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-tomb-and-the-rose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Tomb and the Rose</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">(After Victor Hugo.)</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The Tomb said to the Rose:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Flower of Love, where goes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each tear which Dawn upon thy cheeks doth shed?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Rose said to the Tomb:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What makest in thy gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Impenetrable of the countless dead?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said the Rose: O Tomb, of all these tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my recesses ere the sun appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I make a perfume which the gods will prize.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said the Tomb: O plaintive Flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of every mortal I devour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An angel do I make for Paradise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="rest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Rest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long have I a word enshrined</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And worshipped with a piety blind!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long have I been seeking Rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the East and in the West!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here and there and everywhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have I seen her shadow fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the shadow seems to fade</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the flowers of yonder glade.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my lone retreat I sought</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her, but dreams against me fought.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my nights for her I pray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with sleep she stays away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Foolish is thine effort, vain—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fruitless, hopeless is thy pain!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the march of Motion keep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thy walk and in thy sleep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond thy finite power it lies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To chain the coursers of the skies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even nomads and cells minute</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Worlds of unrest constitute.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rest is no where to be found;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each to all in suffering bound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no power can deliver thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mortal, from activity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thy life as in thy death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thy heart as in thy breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the earth as in the skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restless Motion never dies.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Always raging, always spinning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Endless and without beginning.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Death, like me, is seeking Rest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the seas are in her quest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ah, poor souls, she is beyond</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our grasp; we must go on and on.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No, nor even the grave is free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the laws that shackle me;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>New life from his worms takes wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on his face fresh blossoms spring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-flatiron-and-the-ruins-of-palmyra" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The "Flatiron" and the Ruins of Palmyra</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To the Ruins of Palmyra this the "Flatiron" addrest:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Did you ever in your glory</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dream of looking up to see my crest?"</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To the "Flatiron" the Ruins thus replied across the sea:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"We were like thee yesterday.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-morrow thou wilt like us be."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="it-was-all-for-him" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">It Was All for Him</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I strolled upon the Brooklyn Bridge one day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Beneath the storm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>None but a lad in rags upon the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw;—there on a bench he lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">Heedless of form.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He seemingly was reading what the Shower</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was publishing upon the Bridge and down the Bay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he was writing, writing at this hour,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Writing in a careless sort of way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Upon a pad he scribbled and as fast the rain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Retouched, effaced, corrected and revised.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was he recording Nature's solemn strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or sketching choristers therein disguised?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Whatever it be, I found myself quite by his side;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My nod and smile he pocketed and wrote again;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Read me your drizzling stuff," I said, and he replied:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"I've written a check in payment for this shower of rain."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="repentance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Repentance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When tears wash tears and soul upon soul leaps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When clasped in arms of anguish and of pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When love beneath the feet of passion creeps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah me, what do we gain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When we our rosy bower to demons lease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When Life's most tender strains by shrieks are slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When strife invades our quietude and peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah me, what do we gain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When we allow the herbs of hate to sprout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When weeds of jealousy the lily stain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When pearls of faith are crushed by stones of doubt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah me, what do we gain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When night creeps on us in the light of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When we nepenthes of good cheer disdain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When on the throne of courage sits dismay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah me, what do we gain?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When sweetness, goodness, kindness all have died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When naught but broken, bleeding hearts remain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When rough-shod o'er our better self we ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ah me, what do we gain?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="o-give-me-strength-to-take" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">O, Give Me Strength to Take</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Thy love's as tender as the drooping rose that sadly says to earth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"No more have I the strength to take what thou giv'st me;"</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But unlike her, alas, thy love's complaint of dearth:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"Thou hast no strength to give what I demand of thee."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thy love hath heard the many whispered promises of every soul;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His birth methinks is nigh coeval with the birth of time:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He lives in death throughout the ages, and his goal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is hidden in the faded flowers from every clime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His soul is deeper than the sea and deepest caverns in its bed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'T is higher than the highest sky above our own;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'T is purer than the morning dew a-dripping from the salvias red;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">'T is mightier than the four winds, blowing from every zone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This love hath offered me the keys of all his halls and towers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And to my heart with clinging kisses he appealed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, ah, forgive me God! must I the sweetest flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Refuse because they do not grow in Beauty's field?</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="written-after-reading-king-lear" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Written After Reading King Lear</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Long is his course, O master of our woes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And joys, and tears, our passions and desires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In nature's school—in hell-begotten fires;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dread is the agony and fell the throes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which with the Night and Storm he undergoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Treason in his robes herself attires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Love beneath adultery's sheet expires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mocked Sincerity sincerer grows.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To vie with wailing winds and weeping clouds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And valleys shrieking in the fangs of storms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Human Hurricane thou didst create;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But just as soon as Death this horror shrouds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hear the distant cry of fiery forms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ay, and the creaking of hell's deepest gate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="near-the-cascades" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Near the Cascades</h2>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Hold back thy lips, I pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Just let me rest this way;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">My soul is in the spray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arising from the silvery cascades murmuring farewell to the day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Thy kisses 'neath a sigh</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Of mine extinguished lie;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">O friend, I choke, I die:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray, let me raise my head to see the parting light, the vivid sky,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">If every kiss of thine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Is safely kept with mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">For one for whom I pine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouldst thou, contented with the taking, call my love a love divine?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Ay, and for every tear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Thou sheddest when I'm near</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">I shed a score to hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her echo my desire's sigh, albeit she is not thy peer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">If I were but a reed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Or but a fern or weed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">This would not be my creed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But prick thou these cold slips and all the roots of me in heaven will bleed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Thy burning breath is creeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">All over me; 't is leaping</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Into my bones and sweeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their ashes out, up and into mine eyes, alas! the awful reaping.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">No longer do I fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Nor see, nor feel, nor hear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">No longer am I near;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If thou wilt quench thy flame, kiss now the lips that were to thee so dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">As well kiss thou the grass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">On which I lay, alas!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Like me, thou too wilt pass;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One kiss will turn thy lips to ashes and one tear, thine eyes to glass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">Beneath this hemlock tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">A clod I leave to thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">But over land and sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My soul is rising, rising, rising, searching for the gods that be.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">But gods have lived, and lied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And loved, and fell, and died;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">And like me too they cried</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For mercy at the snow white feet of Beauty's daughter, Beauty's bride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i3">And when from Beauty's spell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">Her soul is free, she'll dwell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i3">In mine, the storm to quell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In mine she'll rise to realms of bliss, or swiftly whirl into the deepest hell.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="onward-keep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Onward Keep</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Onward keep! Forget the self that cried:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"This world's a forest choked with ice and snow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No spark of fire through it can ever ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No human flame in it can ever glow."</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And keeping onward, now, I find</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The golden leaves of yesterday</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All safely hidden from the wind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beneath the snow that melts away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the shivering boughs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">New leaves and tender sprout;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They crown the winter's brows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And laugh away his doubt.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">And in the brook</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">The echoes of</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">What I forsook—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">What I did love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">And the frost</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">'Neath the breath</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Of me must</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Welcome death;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">And the heat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Left behind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Guides the feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Of the blind.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Onward keep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Laugh and weep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Pain and joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Hide and peep.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Rise and fall—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">Fall and rise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">This is all—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i5">This is wise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="allah-wa-ana" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title" xml:lang="ar-Latn">Allah wa Ana</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Though I'm God, thou art man, we are one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We are all and we shall ever be;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though the light of my sky thou didst shun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou shalt love me ere thy course is run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As forever I live loving thee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou art mine, I am thine and the fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of my breath all thy regions shall warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere the life in thy soil shall expire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ere the seeds of thy basest desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From their prison break out and take form.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou wilt doubt and deny me forsooth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And rejoice in thy vanity's power;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou wilt die on the breast of my truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the end thou wilt laugh at thy youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And its wine although old will be sour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was with thee when thou didst deny,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As I am with thy mother at prayer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was with thee when thou didst defy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My hell and my earth and my sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And I love none the less those that dare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the yogi's pagoda I am;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the fire of the magi I was;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the sons of Abraheem and Sham</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their foes and to thee I undam</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the banks of my veins on the cross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Through the spheres and the primitive throngs</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I came down and I struggled with thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the ages I sing in thy songs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I leave thee to rise on thy wrongs;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou shalt rise and thou shalt live in me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="in-memory-of-e-m-el-k" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In Memory of <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">E. M.</abbr> El-<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">K.</abbr></h2>
			<p>
				<span>When my parched lips upon thy princely brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Placid as tropic mead, as glacier cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Imprinted a last farewell, where wert thou—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where didst thy soul its loveliness unfold?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can't be that in some undiscovered sphere</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Muses sing their souls to thine in bliss?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can't be that when I kiss thy forehead here</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A thousand angels echo there my kiss?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>What is this mask, where is the soul, O where.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And from these eyes, O God, where went the light?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My silence cries within me in despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My reason's sinking in this sea of Night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Esau, I am beside thee now alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I dare not weep, I dare not even breathe;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But through the stillness something hither blown</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Makes of thine amber locks a golden wreath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Life flutters in thy hair as in mine eyes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Death can not choke the breeze that whispers there</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A word of hope; beneath my breath will rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A hair with God eternity to share</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The noon and eve of Life thou didst not see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But in its Dawn thou didst anticipate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What jealous Night would not permit to be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">What pain and suffering never could abate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall I strew on thee faded blossoms. Brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or fiery buds consumed by their own flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or myrrh and myrtle from our Mountain-mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or golden rods that whispered oft thy name?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or, at the shrine of Liberty and Love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where thou didst worship ardently and die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall I now join the gods come from above</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With thy sweet songs this shrine to beautify?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ye sapling-pines of star-kissed Lebanon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ye cedars laden with a wealth of years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Send with the mist of dawn and the rising sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your garlands, and your incense, and your tears.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="to-abul-ala" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">To Abu'l-Ala</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In thy melancholy's pensive Fancy</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Wisdom rolled its beauteous stars and moons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just as in my riotings of pleasure</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thy lone midnights roll into my noons.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Abu'l-Ala, in thy glorious darkness</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Didst thou not remember unborn me?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thy journey to the farthest planets</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Didst thou not a burdened shadow see?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ay, behind the portals of Saturnus</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Secretly the cup to thee I passed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long, long after this cup thou returnest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Filled with gems of fancy and recast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In thy Prison a thousand Yamen weapons</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou didst forge for the oppressed and weak:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In my attic a thousand Beauty roses</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I pluck for thee from a Yankee cheek.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-towers-and-the-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Towers and the Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Over the White Way's flood of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over its sea of fiery flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arose the voice of the ancient Night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the youthful Towers:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"O Night of nations passed," the Towers said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"One day stood high your monuments, but now</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your highest pyramid must lift its head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the lights that crown our City's brow."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>"But man," replied the Night, "shall crown the stars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With flowers of thought divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And write his name upon a monument</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Greater than yours and mine."</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-end-and-the-beginning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The End and the Beginning</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The deed is done, O Kings: the blood is shed:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sword is broken:—broken, too, the Cross.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she, the mother eternal of the dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though sorrow-laden, smiles at the loss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You go down grimed with the blood and smoke of wars;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your armies scattered and your banners furled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She comes down covered with the dust of stars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And gives her life again to build the world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cataclysm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Cataclysm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Even through the City of the Dead she passed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her sack of Horror's harvest to refill;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lo, into the untilled world she cast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With a million hands, the black seeds of her will.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the bone-strewn waste I saw a snail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crawling out of the socket of a skull,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Exultant still:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rising from the universal bane</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To thank the rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in the thorny flanks of the river tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gorged yesteryear with the fruits of fear and doubt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The nations bear when their sinews run out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw the crocus weave her tender bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the ivy's tangled hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While struggling out of the gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To praise the air.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Cataclysm, passing to her goal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Turned inside out the pockets of the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not sparing even the altar of the soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which at the cradle of the soul she hurled.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when at last she fell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the sill of hell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw in her incalculable toll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A butterfly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Winging out of the riddled emblem of God</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Toward the sky;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rising with the Faith re-won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To serenade the sun.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="reflections" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reflections</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I walked along the countryside</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At eventide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And everywhere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The road was fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With moons of water here and there,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into whose heart the grasses spied.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And suddenly upon them shone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The light of the City's eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reflected from a bulb on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which made them and their shadow one.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay, made each moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mirror seem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To serve the dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of tender blades in bending grace a-swoon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I walked into the night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every abode</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beyond the dark, deserted road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was a prattle of light.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I thought of the Eye Unseen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which sheds its charitable sheen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not on our goal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on the by-ways of the Soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-song-of-siva" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Song of Siva</h2>
			<p>
				<span>'T is Night; all the Sirens are silent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All the Vultures asleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the horns of the Tempest are stirring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Under the Deep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'T is Night; all the snow-burdened Mountains</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Dream of the Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And down in the Wadi the River</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is calling to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'T is Night; all the Caves of the Spirit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shake with desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Orient Heaven's essaying</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its lances of fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They hear, in the stillness that covers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The land and the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The River, in the heart of the Wadi,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Calling to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>'T is night, but a night of great joyance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A night of unrest:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The night of the birth of the spirit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the East and the West;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Caves and the Mountains are dancing</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On the Foam of the Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the River inundant is calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Calling to me.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fruits-of-death" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fruits of Death</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Said the folded Leaves upon the Heat</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the opening Leaves upon the Tree:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>"Soon will the Warders of the Storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bring us to our Mother-Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even as they opened yesternight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our prison doors of Destiny:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We envy no the Birds now nor the Dew:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To them we leave the Forest and to you."</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The infant Leaves thus made reply:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">"But we rejoice that we are here;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We stand in the cerulean Gate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of Life to crown the dying Year.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Him who emancipates we love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He who enchains is also dear:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You are the Flowers of the Storm, and we,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are the Fruits of Death upon Life's tree.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="constantinople" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Constantinople</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Othman's sword, as Paleologue's, is broken</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Othman's gods are smitten to the dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And naught remains, not even a rusty token</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of their hierarchal cruelty and lust:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When church and mosque and synagogue shall be,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Despite the bigot's cry, the zealot's prayer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unbounded in their bounties all and free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In every heritage divine to share:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thou shalt rise, rejoicing in thy loss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the ruins of a state nefast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To reconcile the Crescent and the Cross</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wash thy hands of thine unholy past;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When with the faith new-born of East and West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which spans the azure heights of man's desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spirit of thy people, long oppressed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is all a-glow with its undying fire;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thou thyself, Byzantium, shalt stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the minaret of Freedom and thy voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rising above the muazzens in the land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bids all the seekers of the light rejoice:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When in thy heart the flame of freedom sings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in thy hand the torch of freedom glows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in thy word the sword of freedom rings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in thy deed the seed of freedom grows,—</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then shall we call thee Mistress of the Morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bride of the Straits, Queen of the Golden Horn.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="andalusia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Andalusia</h2>
			<section id="andalusia-1">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Alcazar</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>There was a rhapsody in all her moods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A child-like grace, a passion unrestrained;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her throne, which bard and saki shared, was stained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With virgin wine as with the blood of feuds;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in her lyric-woven interludes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Epitomizing destiny and time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her spirit, hid in opalescent rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shades of Melancholy still eludes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where'er she trod, the rose and bulbul meet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where'er she revelled, gardens ever blow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where'er she danced, the henna of her feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet lends a lustre to the poppy's glow;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arabia, dark-eyed, light-hearted, fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is but a flower in Andalusia's hair.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="andalusia-2">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Alhambra</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Gods of the silence, still remembering</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dying echoes of her lute, bemoan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In canticles of golden monotone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her Orient splendor too soon vanishing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And while lions guard her courts, grey eagles wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Around her turquoise domes, and seedlings blown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From distant lands to her hushed fountains cling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, and the sun himself sits in her throne.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Time, once her vassal, lingers near the streams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That woo the shadows of her crumbling walls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, musing of Alhambra's glory, dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Elegance and Power in Myrtle Halls;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arabia, once counted of the strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is but a sigh in Andalusia's song.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="andalusia-3">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Mosque</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>In the bewildering grove of colonnades,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Once brilliant with a flood of saffron light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poured from ten thousand lanterns day and night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her memory, like spikenard in the glades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of distant Ind or Yemen, never fades;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And her devotion, though the ages blight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The mystic bloom of her divine delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still casts on alien altars longing shades.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But through the mihrabs which the humble hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of genius wrought, o’er marbles hollowed deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By knees that only Piety could command,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I see Oblivion coming forth to reap;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arabia, in Allah’s chaplet strung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is but a word on Andalusia’s tongue.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="andalusia-4">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title" xml:lang="ar-Latn">Al-Zahra</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Not with the Orient glamor of her pleasures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor with fond rhapsodies of prayer or song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Could she her sovereign reign a day prolong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not in the things of beauty that man measures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the variable humor of his leisures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or by the credibilities that change</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From faith to fantasy to rumor strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was she the mistress of immortal treasures.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when the holy shrine Europa sought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Herself of sin and witchcraft to assoil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sovereigns of Al-Zahra maxims wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Averroes burned his midnight oil;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arabia, the bearer of the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still sparkles in the diadem of Night.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="in-the-palm-groves-of-memphis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">In the Palm Groves of Memphis</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Khamsin<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> comes robed in the Lybian sands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Veiled in the haze of June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Armed with Sahara's serpent-wreathed brands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shod with the sun and moon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swift winging in a cycloramic flame,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Typhon born, unseeing and untame,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She comes her reign of terror to proclaim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While crowning day and night with all the blazonry of tropic noon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She claps her iridescent wings, and lo!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The rolling heat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tremulous, reverberant, a-glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sibilant, fleet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeps over the land with unabating ire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Devouring Spring’s heritage entire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Setting the very pyramids a-fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Engulfing even the turtle’s shelter and the turtle-dove’s retreat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas! where are the roses which the prime</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of summer share</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the sesame, the myrtle and the thyme</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In meadow's fair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is the sacred lotus and the bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of cumin and mimosa, whose perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once filled the shrine of Isis and her tomb?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where is the pomegranate flower that shone in Cleopatra’s hair?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where is the riant beauty of the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of mystic runes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That decorates its shimmering robes of sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With emerald moons?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where are the emerald shelters, desert-bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That with the prayer of caravans resound?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is the desert trail, the watering ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That murmurs low of lost oases amidst the fast dissolving dunes?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where is the caravan that yesternight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the merry sound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of bells, set out of the city of delight</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To Nubia bound?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where is the Nubian caravan that late</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Passed heavy-laden through Denderah’s gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speeding to reach the city for the fete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When gold and silver freely flow, when Allah’s bounties abound?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where is the crested lark, the golden thrush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the sacred grove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which made the sensitive accacia blush</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bloom with love?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where has the bearded bustard fallen? where</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is Ibis, once the pet of Hermes fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nursing his purple wings and his despair?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where is the red flamingo hiding, where’s the house of the turtle-dove?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Across the welkin, like a shadow cast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon a cloud, but one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Undaunted dips his black wings in the blast</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And rears anon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His form against the rushing winds; alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vulture hovers around the flame-draped throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Death, and over the palms that rock and moan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Peering through the desolation, staring at the laughing sun.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Khamsin, in her chariot of fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon which clings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The moult of her unsatiable desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Delirious sings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shakes the harvest from her tangled hair—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sesame seeds, the grasses sere, the tare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The golden tassels which the rushes wear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The purple feathers of the ibis and the swallow’s shrivelled wings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She shakes her booty from her sapphire tresses</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In gleeful guile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As she in passing savagely caresses</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The crouching Nile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While everywhere, within her sight or call.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along its banks or in its rushes tall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All things are swooning in her leaden thrall,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yea, prostrate is the salamander, prostrate is the crocodile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when at intervals her madness takes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A sudden turn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A lull ensues and over Egypt breaks</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sacred urn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of silence; while to quench her ancient thirst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which licked up every running stream and cursed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every pool in cave or hollow nursed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">She plunges deep into the Nile and wonders why his waters burn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And wonders too when in the winnowed sands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Out of the gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of labyrinthine avenues and lands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of mystic bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Arise the scents of blossoms that have known</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten thousand Khamsins, and were often blown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To dust ere Menes sat upon his throne—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The blossoms of the teeming depths that float above the crest of doom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yea, and in the scattered dust of Ptah,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The flawless gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That once shone in the fane of Amen-Ra</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Would fain redeem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From darknesses of immemorial time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which swallowed Thebes and Memphis in their prime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The symbol of a heritage sublime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And light again the sacred temple of the world’s eternal dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For though the earth itself should perish in</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A flaming pyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wasting sun should like a spider spin</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">His cobwebs of fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet in the serdabs under Khamsin’s feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around the blue of Osiris’s judgment seat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is this, which glyphs vermilion repeat:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sun of thought, of faith, of God shall never expire, shall never expire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Albeit, in a mocking gust she veers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That knows nor time nor sun, nor ever hears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The voice of Doom;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And, rifling the bejewelled gods, she drops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The veil of splendor from her howdah’s tops</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rocks in state from Karnak to Cheops</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To tramp the dust of Pharoah’s pride, to smite the phantom of his tomb.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But mocking Khamsin, when her mood is spent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lulls the morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In luscious breezes swooning with the scent</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of love reborn;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carressing winds! the tree senescent grows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In you as young as fruitful, and the rose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the bistre lips of Ramesis blows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whispering of things immortal to the wandering seed and the reed forlorn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She passes in phantasmagoric waves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Over shifting dunes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through shattered orbs, beyond the barren caves</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of mouldering moons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the antique youth the Sun, as young to-day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As when the cricket first essayed her lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the flood of Nilus makes his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And with him weaves for Egypt wondrous summer garlands and galloons.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>And lo, the Khamsin of the world, in flames</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of crimson hue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And clouds of vitriolic dust, proclaims</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The era new;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But through the storm a spirit wings his flight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Across the phosphorescent gulfs of night.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this, upon the rising sun, doth write:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">God liveth, yea, God liveth still and man shall nothing rue.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prayer-in-the-desert" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Prayer in the Desert</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Lord of Bounties, melt thy heaven’s breath.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which spreads its gold around the head of Death,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which, while it smiles, devours all living things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Giving to Desolation wondrous wings:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lest in the waste Arabia’s star should wane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A little rain, Allah, a little rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thou Bountiful, thy Sun is weaving fast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shroud of Earth now in the sand-storm cast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Earth can not weep,—the well of faith is run,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its rivers and its desert sands are one:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O thou Bestower, once more sustain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy sun-crowned Daughter with a little rain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Quiet this rising phantom-haunted sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sands; the Faithful from its fury free;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enchain the monsters of the dire simoom,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let not the desert be thy children’s tomb.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou Merciful, assist us to attain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our goal,—a little rain, a little rain!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Arabia’s thousand wounds to thee appeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with our lips its gaping wounds we seal;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Prostrate upon the sands we lift our hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pierced in thy presence by thy flaming darts.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy children, Allah, in the throes of pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray for a little rain, a little rain!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="water-and-flowers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Water and Flowers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Here are flowers, O my Beloved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here are flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us lay our hearts today</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Among the flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us not be led astray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the mirage far away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here is verdure, and in verdure</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Love embowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here are springs, O my beloved.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here are springs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us rest and build a nest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Near the springs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us cease our weary quest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the mountains of the blest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Here is water, and in water</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Blessing sings.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-song-of-rain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Song of Rain</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Allah is merciful, Allah is kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His heart, in the tears of the earth, is enshrined;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">He chains the desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">Of whirlwind and fire :—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Drought, the Simoon and their forces entire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the fast spreading shades of his pity, suspire;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">It rains, it rains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Allah is gracious, Allah is sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The desert is flowering under his feet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">E’en the fires he fanned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">And the mountains they spanned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the caverns that groan under burdens of sand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are dazed with the bounties that flow from his hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">It rains, it rains!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Allah ’s all-seeing, Allah is wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The palm from the stone to praise him shall rise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">The deer in the dale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">The plant in the shale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bird in the nest, and the gull in the gale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are joyously chanting, Hail, Allah, hail!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">It rains, it rains!</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Allah is mighty, Allah is great,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His hands all things resuscitate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">He burns the shroud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">He shakes the cloud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the dead of the earth with new life are endowed,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bones of the earth are joyous and proud;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">It rains, it rains!</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-house-of-night" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The House of Night</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Her sable robes the gloaming trails</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From golden strand to purple height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And softly, over the wealds and dales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the vacant House of Night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But lo, where first her footsteps mark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The sunset’s last extinguished pyre,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above the hills,—a saffron spark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A gleam of unconjectured fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Between the foliaged zone and sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where sentries of the forest stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It peeps and flits—a firefly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It soars and glows—a firebrand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A sacred flame from hemlock shades,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rising like a mystic sign</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above the silence of the glades</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the solitudes divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A sign perchance from those who pass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To those who follow in the gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancing round a moulten mass</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the grudging gulfs of doom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A new-born world, though years untold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Have fed the forge that gave it breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Life still casts of beaten gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Cressets for the shrine of Death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A dying world, though like a gem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of sapphire hues in nacre bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dropt from the zone or diadem</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the immortal queen of night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A world! From depths to heights as dark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It leaps anon into the dance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And whirls away—’t is but a spark</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the anvil of the God of Chance,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Faith and Fancy often mar</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The mystery of things divine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For that which is a rolling star</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was fluttering neath a lonely pine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And lo, another orb doth roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Above the groves where once it trod;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still another seeks its goal</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the infinities of God.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From where the eagle marks his flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the void that earth-bound seems,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They twinkle forth, a circle of light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Around the Gloaming’s couch of dreams.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus they first themselves disguise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As glow worms in the gathering gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And suddenly refulgent rise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">O’er the abysmal tracks of doom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For aeons thus, from hill to sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Athwart the grudging gulfs they glow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And waning tell of the worlds that be</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And the ghosts of worlds of long ago.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For aeons thus, their torches high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The gods unseen—as when the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of day conceals the starry sky—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Illuminate the House of Night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="after-reading-king-lear" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">After Reading King Lear</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Is ’t strange that in the cycle of his woes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which shakes his cloud-embosomed peak of years</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And shatters the very fountain of his tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He seeks the friendly path of winds and snows?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Villany forgiven more villanous grows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Treason in his robes herself attires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And Love beneath Adultery’s sheet expires,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is ’t strange that mating with the Storm he goes?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Father and King! in sooth, they know thee well—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Whirlwind and the Forest and the Night;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we who in the obscure shelters dwell</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Know better of thy sorrow than thy might.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Father and King! thy heritage is vast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherever children be, its seeds are cast.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-wanderer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Wanderer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I wander among the hills of alien lands</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where Nature her prerogative resigns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Man; where Comfort in her shack reclines</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all the arts and sciences commands.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But in my soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The eastern billows roll—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hear the voices of my native strands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My lingering eyes, a lonely hemlock fills</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With grace and splendor rising manifold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath her boughs the maples spread their gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And at her feet, the silver of the rills.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But in my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A peasant void of art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Echoes the voices of my native hills.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On every height a studied art confines</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All human joy in social pulchritude;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The boxwood frowns where beckoning birches stood.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And where the thrushes carolled Fashion dines.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But through the spreading cheer</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">The shepherd’s reed I hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beneath my Lebanon terebinths and pines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And though no voices here are heard of toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor accents least of sorrow, nor the din</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of multitudes, nor even at the Inn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The City is permitted aught to spoil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Yet in my breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A shack at best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laments the mother of my native soil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Even where the sumptuous solitudes deny</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A shelter to a bird or butterfly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As in the humblest dwelling of the dale</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A gracious welcome ’s shown the passer-by</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">But evermore clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Allwhere I hear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The calling of my native hut and sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Land of my birth! a handful of thy sod</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Resuscitates the flower of my faith;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For whatsoever the seer of science saylh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Thou art the cradle and the tomb of God;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">And forever I behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">A vision old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Beauty weeping where He once hath trod.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lebanus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lebanus</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">To <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">B. C. R.</abbr></p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O my Love, how long wilt thou continue</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Fondly nursing every dreaming Hour!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Our Lebanus, O my Love, is calling.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Yea, and waiting in his ancient Tower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In his ancient, cedar-shaded castle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Night and day, Lebanus sits a-musing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the memories that bloom unnoticed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every season at the feet of Sorrow;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Musing of the radiant days of Tammuz</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That went dancing with the bride of summer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down the deep and pine-encircled Wadi;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Musing of the time the Prophets kindled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sacred fire in Man’s empurpled temples,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blazing all the highways of the world;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Musing of the days embattled monarchs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laid their shields and lances at his feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bowed before his throne invincible.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O my Love, the sad and lonely Cedar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever rocking in her arid splendor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever in penurious shades embosomed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reaches out for water in the meadows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for sunlight in deserted vineyards;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rears her hope above the snow eternal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Crowning her Time-hallowed desolation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O my Love, the crumbling Temple ’s dreaming</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the star that wanders from its orbit.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the rose that blooms and dies forsaken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the leaves that fall from sheltering branches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Only to become the sport of chance winds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or the bed of some unsightly creeper;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreaming of the Lebanon lily, drooping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the dells beneath forbidding ridges;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dreaming of the corymbs of the elder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That forgot the touch of loving hands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the zephyr of the South, which passes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er their bloom of tender welcome, only</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fans into a flame the smoldering embers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the anguish of departed lovers.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O my Love, the furzes are in full bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waiting on the terrace of Lebanus</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the ardent and enamored seeker,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waiting, and the secret of their silence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Locked remains within their shells of amber</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till thou comest, till they hear thee whisper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>
					<em>I am thine and thou art mine forever.</em>
				</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O my Love, how long wilt hither tarry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Making toys of Time’s discarded hours?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair Lebanus, O my Love, is calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Yea, and waiting in his House of Flowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And around it wings of song unnumbered,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Amber-tinted, beryline, vermilion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pour their riches in the land of mourning,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strew their silver in the olive grove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weave their magic through the almond blossoms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shake the incense from the terebinths,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spread in vain their gladness o’er the pines.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, a sea of Siren witchery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the sundown inundates the heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rolling o’er a sea of boughs emblossomed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Multi-hued, aglow with burning rapture;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Waves of song are on the scented breezes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rolling o’er the virgin snow of Sanneen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the trackless verdure of the lowland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the mottled mountains joined forever</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a wild embrace of stony silence;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rolling over Wadis fondly nursing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cyclamens of unremembered seasons,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oleanders of unfathered beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Irises of mothered tenderness.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, my Love, the robin in the olives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thrills the very shadow of the branch;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the pomegranate, thrush and skylark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fill its crimson cups with flaming rapture;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the fig tree and the laden vineyard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bulbuls chant the joy of harvest-time.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, my Love, the birds of dawn are calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whispering, chattering, warbling everywhere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dancing, flitting, waiting in the groves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lingering in the chinks of terraces.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Making early visits to their young.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nay, they’re busy making preparation</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thy coming, longing to behold thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Singing meanwhile to the morning star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which borrows from thine eyes its radiance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From thy tresses, all its golden splendor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O my Love, how long wilt hither tarry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Wilt dally with the web of Time, how long?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lone Lebamts, O my Love, is calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Yea, and waiting in his House of Song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And over it our star is re-appearing!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The star of our own destiny is rising</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the mountains of embrace eternal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the cedars of the sacred faith,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the ruins of the ancient temple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flooding them with light of tender pallor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like the light that lingers in the eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of parted lovers,—shaking from the bosom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of night their shadows, dew-drenched, iris-scented.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Garlanding the messengers of morning</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the coming of the well-loved stranger.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, the Star of Love, the Light supernal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before which bowed the world in adoration.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is re-appearing in the Orient heaven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thy sake, for thee, O my Belovéd.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, without thee, neither song nor flower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor star nor temple of antique Lebanus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has aught compelling of the Soul’s devotion.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with thee, the caves, the naked ridges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The very rocks betoken the divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span class="i1">O my Love, how long wilt hither tarry</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Weaving gossamer of day and night?</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sad Lebanus, O my Love, is calling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Yea, and waiting in his House of Light.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-pagan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Pagan</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I walked into her Temple, as of yore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My Tyrian sires, allured by cryptic signs;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But sudden as I entered closed the door</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Upon the hope that mortal love resigns</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before her ancient, myrtle-bowered shrines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I sorrowed not; though every lamp I lit</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Flamed up in speech articulate and said,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beware, O foolish Worshipper! ’t is writ:</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“Who craves a gift shall give his soul instead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who lights a lamp is cursed of the dead.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I did not heed; I passed from shrine to shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Filling the lamps with oil, the Fane with light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when I approached, O One Eternal, thine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I heard the terror of her tongue, and Night</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was creeping on her brow of malachite.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I did not stop, although the votive oil</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">I poured into thine urn to water turned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when the Dawn her enchantments came to foil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The secret of thy clemency I learned—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Again the oil upon thine altar burned.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then suddenly the Temple shook and swayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And all the shrines, except thine, disappeared;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even so her heart, by knowledge undismayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On Love’s one altar with thy hand upreared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To Love’s one God is evermore endeared.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-lost-disciple" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Lost Disciple</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Master, I can not adventure with thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At the Door of the Dawn, in my lone wandering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have broken my staff; for the true dawn is she</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who comes every day with her jar to the spring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ay, Master, I tarried last night at the gate</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of her garden, which kisses the Lake Galilee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was gathering flowers and fruits for the Fete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And with tulips and poppies she beckoned to me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In her lamp there was oil, in my hand there was fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In her house cried a voice, ‘O make haste with the flame!’</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On my lips were the names of the daughters of Tyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">On her breast were the lilies that whispered thy name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I have dared, O my Master, to envy thy feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And to yearn for the love of a Magdalen fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have dreamed that mine, too, in the heart of the street.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Were laved with her own hands and dried with her hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Master, my lips her devotion have stained,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For her soul’s precious ointments were offered too late;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I have lost in the fire of my lust what I gained</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In my longing and love for her love and thy fate.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="from-the-arabic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">From the Arabic</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Why art thou so hushed and sad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So thin and wan?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who robbed thee of thy flesh and song,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Was it Ramadhan?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nay, Ramadhan is not to blame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For I have ceased to fast and pray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to my vacant Dwelling came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An unknown Guest—he came to stay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in my heart he eats and drinks;</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He drinks my blood, of wines the best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And eats my burning flesh—ah, yes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">My love for Zahra is that Guest.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="she-went-out-singing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">She Went Out Singing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>She went out singing, and the poppies still</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Crowd round her door awaiting her return;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She went out dancing, and the doleful rill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Lingers beneath her walls her news to learn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their love is but a seed of what she has sown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their grief is but a shadow of my own.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O Tomb, O Tomb! did Zahra’s beauty fade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Or dost thou still preserve it in thy gloom?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Tomb, thou art nor firmament nor glade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet in thee shines the moon and lilies bloom.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hanem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hanem</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Hanem, we must have met before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Perhaps a thousand years ago;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I still remember when I tore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Your virgin veil of lunar snow.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Allah, I remember, too,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When, sousing in my mortal bain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You bit my lip and said, “Adieu,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When shall we, Syrian, meet again?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Planem, thine eyes are brighter far</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Than when in mine they shone one day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wager every moon and star</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The tax of lustre to them pay.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And those who dared with them to jest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where are they now ?—those lovers slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who whispered dying on your breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“O Hanem, shall we meet again?”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The victims of your eyes are here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In pyramids they keep their clay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even your sister Flames are near,-</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They fain would kiss my soul away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full many a time from them you bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">This mortal love, this mortal gain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember Nubia’s sable shore—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When shall we, Hanem, meet again?</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>L’Envoi</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Why quickly through the Cairo street?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will you return?—Shall I remain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fate might not ever the chance repeat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When shall we, Hanem, meet again?</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="o-freedom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">O Freedom</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O Freedom, in thy cause I fought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For twenty years I fought in vain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in my mountain shelter naught</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But worthless trophies now remain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet in my heart I hear a cry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which never there makes a vain appeal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would once more beneath thy sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brandish my sharp and shining steel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>How much one stakes upon thy dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How much for but thy name we pay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How cheap the passing ages seem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When years are given for thy day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How many still would fight and die</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In thine old cause and for thy weal!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would once more beneath thy sky</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brandish my sharp and shining steel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The purest love I give away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The bliss of it I set at naught;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Again I’m on my wayward way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Seeking what I have often sought.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My wounded hopes, my bleeding ties,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No peace inglorious e’er shall heal:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I would once more beneath thy skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Brandish my sharp and shining steel.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>L’Envoi</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>O Freedom, though thy price be high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though one for thee his life must seal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I would once more beneath thy sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Brandish my sharp and shining steel.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="the-road-of-make-believe" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Road of Make-Believe</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>She sits upon a rock along the stream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That heard the whisper of her first Desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Washing the faded garment of her Dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which she had often carried to the Dyer—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Dream of her self-centred lyric fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the flowing, scarlet wounds of Twilight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Expiring on Aurora’s drooping wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the secret scimitar of Night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She dyes again her garment, while she sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of new-born love, though to self-love she clings.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>He seeks the path of glory in the noon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of self-intoxication, dreaming still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of power,—wondering why the sun and moon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are not yoked to the chariot of his will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His soul, a clinging vine, his mind, an ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He beats against the peaks of earth-bound dreams.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Subsisting on the thistles of his heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ever seeking, in the fitful gleams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of his own fire, self-admiration’s mart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To mend his horn or whet his venomed dart.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>They walk together in the golden vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of vision-haunted, soul-alluring sands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beholding the illusions of the past</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Among the ruins of deserted lands;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Together, although neither understands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The groping purpose of the other; and yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While in their hearts the gods of conflict nod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They gloze and smile, dissembling their regret:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Love, on the Road of Make-Believe, they prod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He going to the dogs and she, to God.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="renunciation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Renunciation</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At eventide the Pilgrim came</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And knocked at the Beloved’s door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Whose there!” a voice within, “Thy name?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">“ ’T is I,” he said.—“Then knock no more.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As well ask thou a lodging of the sea,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is no room herein for thee and me.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Pilgrim went again his way</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And dwelt with Love upon the shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of self-oblivion; and one day</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">He knocked again at the Beloved’s door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Whose there?”—“It is thyself,” he now replied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And suddenly the door was opened wide.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-sufi-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Sufi Song</h2>
			<p>
				<span>My heart ’s the field I sow for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee to water and to reap;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart ’s the house I ope for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee to air and dust and sweep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart ’s the rug I spread for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee to dance or pray or sleep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart ’s the pearls I thread for thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For thee to wear or break or keep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My heart ’s a sack of magic things—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Magic carpets, caps and rings—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bring thee treasures from afar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the Deep.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-two-brothers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Two Brothers<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a></h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the grotto the forest designed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the fire-fly first dreamed of the sun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the cricket first chirped to the blind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Zoophyte,—in the cave of the mind</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We were born and our cradle is one.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We are brothers : together we dwelt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Unknown and unheard and unseen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For aeons; together we felt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The urge of the forces that melt</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The rocks into willowy green.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For aeons together we drifted</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the molten abysses of flame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the Cycles our heritage sifted</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the vapor and ooze, and uplifted</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The image that now bears our name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I am God: thou art Man: but the light</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That mothers the planets, the sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of star-dust that roofs every height</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the Universe, the gulfs of the night,—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They are surging in thee as in me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But out of the Chaos, to lead us,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The Giants that borrow our eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lend us their shoulders, must heed us;—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They yield us their purpose, they deed us</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Forever the worlds and the skies.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="god-of-the-distances-hear-us" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">God of the Distances, Hear Us</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>God of the Distances, hear us—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear us and guide us today.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy footsteps, though never so near us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are lost in the dust of the fray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy high priests, who often have spoken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The word that was heeded, are mute;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their torch is extinguished; their token</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is distrust and discord and dispute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of the Distances, never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was man, though still fettered, so free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To challenge his star and to sever</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself from the past and from thee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But we, though our spirit is broken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We heed thee again and anon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We trust thee, O God, though thy token</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be the desert, thy promise, the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever the Distances call us—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Distances veiled of the Dream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we come, whatsoever befall us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our pledges and thine to redeem.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We come; and though often we altered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our course at the gates of dismay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We never looked backward or faltered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never regretted our way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of the Distances, hear us—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear us and guide us today.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>From the cave of the first Dream we wandered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the forests of Fate and of Chance;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on many an illusion we squandered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The treasures of Faith and Romance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We fared with the Fairies of noontide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We roved with the Jinn of the night;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our high priests we left on the wayside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our prophets we lost on the height</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rebellion recurrent. We passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a temple and shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the sherds of old creeds were recast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And traded as tokens divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We passed them, forever consoled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cajoled by the Voice,—’T is the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your goal; your forebodings allay.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thousands of cycles we told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions of leagues we unrolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heedless of Time and his sway.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of the visions of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear us and guide us today.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>We sailed all the Seas of the Mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We rounded the Capes of the Soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We crossed all the Channels that roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the dead of our kind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on many a beckoning strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Furrowed with silvery streams.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We lingered, but lo, in the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were the desolate gardens of dreams.—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Onward! the sails of Desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born of the Distances’ fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tattered but ever unfurled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To worlds undiscovered aspire—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the life-giving worlds of our world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Onward! though no signs appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where once rose the phares of the Seer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Prophet. On, on! to the goal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though veiled in the billows that roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over Orion.—The fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Distances never was liege</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of our hearts; but the Mazes besiege</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bridges of Faith on our way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of our vision austere.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear us and guide us today.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Hear us the Captains of Sorrow,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tillers of the soil of defeat,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lights of the oft promised morrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose false dawns thy promise repeat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our name and our purpose are written</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In blood on the tablets of Time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our spirit, though frequently smitten</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the dust, has arisen, sublime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And triumphant, again and again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our torch, though extinguished, was never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Relinquished; our sword and our pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are brandished forever and ever.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, the Ideal’s undying desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wreaths of defeat it has won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their story, in letters of fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is limned on the brow of the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And not till a new world ’s begotten</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the womb of our own, will the word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the soul of the earth be forgotten,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or the cry of the earth be unheard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>T is our word, ’t is our cry, 't is our yearning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which shall mark even the ending of Time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For no cycle of darkness returning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall reach to the path we must climb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or efface from our sight the supernal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eeauty of Truth born of Dream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God of the vision eternal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are thine, though in darkness we seem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But hear us, O hear us today</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And help us again to our way.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="badruddin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Badruddin</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Seek what you shall e’er possess,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O Badruddin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Although it be a will-o’-the-wisp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the Unseen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which you may never behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until my suns and satellites are cold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the seeking you shall find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hidden jewels of the soul and mind:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every jewel shall reveal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Things divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even in a Sufi’s logic wheel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, even in the lowing kine.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The eyewash, O lone Badruddin, I bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is of the first dews of the first-born spring.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Apply it and behold!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your dog-bitten sandals are transformed into gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your staff, sand-eaten and far-wandering,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is bursting into foliage, blossoming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing fruits of wondrous lush and glow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And underneath the heavy-laden tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A maid, whose face dispels all human woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is cooking sesame for you and me.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cast off the garments of the world</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wear the sacred shades,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose color of contentment never fades,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sit beside me with the golden fawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose name is Eternal Dawn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O thou Beloved, every word of thine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is like a draught of purple wine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every syllable</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is like the singing of the bulbul.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More potent are they than the magic lore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which to the blind the sight restore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As now to one, who though a pilgrim old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is but an infant in the cradle of love.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yea, O thou incomparably Sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy words are to mine eyes a healing kohl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Musk to my nostrils, balm to my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strengthening ointments to my feet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what, in the stores and treasures of the world,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is equal unto this?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wealth and Beauty, Fame and Power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are but mirages in the boundless waste</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That separates me from thee—for an hour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once I tarried at a Well in an Oasis fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the cup I lifted to my lips</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw the image of thy wrath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my despair:—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I dashed against a rock the common clay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hastened away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now, O thou Beloved, I come to thee:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With thy beauty drunk and dumb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burdened with thy wealth, and lame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ushered by thy liveried Fame;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In thy glory garbed I come.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I tremble at thy threshold lest the thorns in my feet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The story of my sacrifice repeat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tremble at thy threshold lest the flowers of my heart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Betray the painted lips of conscious art;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tremble at thy threshold lest the eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That long have sought to behold but once thy face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Deserve not even thy shadow to embrace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-sufi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Sufi</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Lulled in the purple darkness is my soul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Behind the curtain, Allah, of my sight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where recreative waves of wonder roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From sad seas of color over dead seas of light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I close my eyes and lo, the laden Night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stops at the ivory gate to pay thy toll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">To my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And with it Wealth in Destitution’s van,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And power in the chariot of Dole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Fame upon the skeleton she stole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Death, Ambition, too, amidst her clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spurring her jaded nag:—the Caravan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Life is at the gate to pay thy toll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">To my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They pass: I open my eyes: and as I try</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To con the cruel pages of the scroll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which Censure left in fragments at their goal</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then suddenly, illumining the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A form of grace and beauty I descry.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>'T is Love, O Allah, come to pay thy toll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i6">To my soul.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But once, while lingering in the doleful shades,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the fallen, wine-stained colonnades</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of what was once thy temple, where still troll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With languid step, the spirit of pagan maids,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I saw thee, Allah, coming through the glades</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With food of love and from thy scrip I stole</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">A jasmine for my hungry soul.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-fugitive" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Fugitive</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">I saw Thee following me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I heard Thee calling me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I even felt Thine arrows in my tears;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I know Thou art shadowing me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And wilt yet, forestalling me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Whip out the vanities of all my years.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I ran and still I run away from Thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through maze and mirage of mortality;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the hot sands and the frozen lakes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Across the sable wilderness that breaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fragrant moors, I ran to hills of dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up to the secret borderland that gleams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternally, casting its shafts of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every incommunicable height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the spinning feet of humankind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, how I leaped from peak to peak to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The path to the azure dance-hall of the world.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose dome is gemmed, whose portals are empearled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With hearts that melt and crystallize and shine,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With frozen music, frozen beads of wine,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And whose laughter echoes through the spinning spheres,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where we were taught to dance in former years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, I, who lit Thine altar, as a boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nursed in incense fumes my vision of joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a roebuck leaped across the rills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And danced like sparks of sunlight o’er the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be, at early morn and eventide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first of acolytes that served with pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy venerable priests, alas! one day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Casting my shame and piety aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I snuffed the candles out and walked away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the dazzling night of dance and song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the temple of the merry throng.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever since, a fugitive from Thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shod with Thy lightning, chuckling oft with glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unburdened and unfettered and undaunted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With naught, not e’en my shamelessness to hide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only by beguiling Beauty haunted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I trod the path of demiurgic pride.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, I was proud, when in the dawn’s desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I could command the fruit of every tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bloom of every garden, and the fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every passion, every ecstacy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon my way. O pride of brawn and dare!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d shake the lustre from the stars and steal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sap from the vines of June, and I would share</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My booty with the comrade that would seal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His thieving faith with paeons to the deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That knows nor law, nor moral code, nor creed.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I ran and still I run away from Thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past pyramids and labyrinths of reason,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through gleaming forests, where the upas tree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feeds both the saint and sinner for a season.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I danced in its lethal shades; I climbed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up to the highest fruit-concealing bough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bends beneath a mocking wing; I rhymed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My joy and pride; and o’er the very brow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Death I leaped into the howling void,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the acrobats of Mind, with balance-pole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Logic in their hands, are ever employed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In scanning the dark canyons of the Soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was proud when on the tight rope I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Essayed my feet and fixed my giddy brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the universe; whereat the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was but a mute infinity of vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belief; and every mystery divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sea-washed, iridescent hollow shell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the sands of faith: yea, every sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the road led to an empty well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was proud—O pride of intellect!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the nothingness of things I could detect.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I ran and still I run away from Thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mistaking Thy compassion for Thine ire;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rebel I, fantastically free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A green-eyed flame of crepitating fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whipped by the winds of Circumstance, and yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Thee pursued and by Thy love beset.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And why?—I oft pretend to know not why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This fond solicitude. For what am I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a bubble of vanity, a human thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Puffed with the vision of a loneliness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In which a pimpled Ego tries to sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Self, alas! and spread its ebon wing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I remember still Thy first caress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, in my infant vision I could feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as the flowers, which Thy love reveal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as the ocean in the Moon’s embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even as the sunrise that reflects Thy face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this remembering, I hailed the soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flaunting the sacred symbol of the goal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shrines Thine image; yea, and I was proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, rising over Self Thyself to find,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Thine own godliness I was endowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet I am but partially resigned. ...</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, spiritual pride! which would disguise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hollow heart of Holier-than-thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In accents borrowed from the meek and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I, too, have prated with a placid brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I, still casting shadows in the mire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was but a scarecrow in the vineyard of desire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">I saw Thee following me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I heard Thee calling me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I even felt Thine arrows in my tears;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">I know Thou art shadowing me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And wilt yet, forestalling me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Whip out the vanities of all my years.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="a-chant-of-mystics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Chant of Mystics</h2>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>From the Mist of Arcana we rise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the Universe of Secrets we come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we enter the Tavern as Lovers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose features are pale as the false dawn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose statures are lean as the new moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like unto a jar is the body,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the soul in the jar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the silvery voice of the Fountain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the rose-scented breath of the Mountain,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">For your sake we have come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">In the shape of a jar from the Sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For your sake we have come as Disgrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">But glory incarnate are we.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For the sake of the world we dance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">O’er the flame, on the point of the lance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">O, think us not mortal, for we</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Are the light on the foam of the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of a truth, we are kin to the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The infinite source of all splendors;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the world’s riddles and wonders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not of the world nor the sun is the breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lingers awhile in the regions of Death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dust on our sandals betrays us, we know—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have travelled afar our devotion to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him who is waiting for us at the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Garden of Union our longing to sate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">We shall interpret the Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">We shall the Secret unveil;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For naked we come, like the dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Like the zephyr, we come, and the gale:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Naked, through thorn-bush and grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">We speak add we pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Our garments were burned in the fire of the Mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the world where the Deaf still dispute with the Blind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We are the Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And into the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">From the Universe of Secrets we’re hurled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are are the Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And into the skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">From the Mists of Arcana we rise.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>In the light of the day, in the stars of the night we behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The face of the Master, the feet of the Pilgrim of old;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the sigh of the wind and the voice of the thunder we hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plaint of the bard and the rhapsodic chant of the seer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Without them, alas, we are dumb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Though not deaf to the flute and the drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But the vision is true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Allahu, Allahu!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They are garbed in blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Allahu, Allahu!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They are drenched with dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Allahu, Allahu!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, Sana’i<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a> the Moon of the Soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Guide and the Road to the goal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Attar<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a> the Vezier of Birds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sing in his musk-scented words.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Arabi,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a> the Tongue of the Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Eye of the Prophet, in sooth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Rabi’a,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a> the Heart of the Sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beloved of the bard and the seer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Rosebud that rises to greet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The splendor beneath Allah’s feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Gazzali,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a> the Weaver of Light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The maker of wings for the flight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Hallaj,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a> the Diver divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose pearls decorate every shrine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose blood was the pledge that his words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>I am Truth</em>, shall fore’er be a sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Jelal’ud-Din Rumi,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a> all hail!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Master who flung every veil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the wind, who ne'er sober was seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though ne’er to the tavern had been;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ever—and often alone—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was dancing before Allah’s throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Tabrizi,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a> who nourished the Bard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With jasmine and myrtle and nard;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who loafed and invited his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And would not write a word in his Scroll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail, Fared,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a> the love-stricken one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heart of the rhapsodic Sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul of the Vineyard, the Press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That knew every vineyard’s caress:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The host of the Tavern divine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Saki, the Cup, and the Wine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i6">The vision is true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Allahu, Allahu!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">They are garbed in blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Allahu, Allahu.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">They are drenched with dew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i7">Allahu, Allahu!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">And casting the years from their folds and the shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">From their bosoms, they leap in the circle of flame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">They leap, with a flash of their limbs, to the dance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the tender caress of the Beautiful’s glance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For only in rapture the face of Beloved is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the mask of the spheres and the veils of existence terrene;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only the slaves of Devotion and Love have the feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That dare to approach the enravishing glow of the Screen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, hither we come as the flame of his rapturous fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the music of rebec and flute, in the dance, we expire.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Yea, Man is as near the Beloved</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As far from the world he may be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He is full of the beauty of Allah</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As he’s void of the Thou and the Me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Life and the world we abandon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That the Life of the world we may see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O, come to the assembly of Lovers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the shade of the Tuba tree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O, come to the Banquet of Union</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And taste of the ecstasy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">O, come to the Tavern where nectar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And wine are a-flow as the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For only the drunken are sober,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And only the fettered are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like the waves of the ocean we rise and we melt into foam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the Moon’s caravan might carry us back to our home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Likes the motes in the sun-beam we dance in the dawn’s disarray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the sun might preserve us awhile from dust and decay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the atoms of being, the motes in the Sun of his Love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are aflame with desire to be where no night is nor day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like a child in the cradle whose mother must rock it to sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We rock to and fro that the child of our heart might be still;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the lonely palm, when the whirlwinds over it sweep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We sigh and vvc chafe in our chains, and we bow to his will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like the bird in the cage who pecks at his sugar and sings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we, in the Cage of the world, to quiet our wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the vulgar will say that the dance of the palm ’s to the wind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the bird to the sugar is singing—Alas! for the blind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We come for their sake in the shape of a jar from the Sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are filled with the water that heals; and though sealed, we are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Nor Crescent Nor Cross we adore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor Budha nor Christ we implore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor Muslem nor Jew we abhor:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">We are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">We are not of Iran or of Ind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">We are not of Arabia or Sind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">We are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">We are not of the East or the West;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No boundaries exist in our breast:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">We are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">We are not made of dust or of dew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">We are not of the earth or the blue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">We are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">We are not wrought of fire or of foam;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor the sun nor the sea is our home;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor the angel our kin nor the gnome:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">We are free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yea, beyond all the moons and the suns ^ud the stars, in a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where no shadow of horizon is, nor of darKness a trace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the Garden of God is a-bloom on Love’s radiant strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There is our temple, our home, and our own native land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, body and soul to the world and the sun do we give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the First Soul—the Soul of Beloved—eternally live.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Awake, O ye Pilgrims, awake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">O Lovers, arise and prepare!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The drum of departure we hear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The Driver is come for the fare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The camels are ready; their bells</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Are decking with silver the air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Awake, O ye Pilgrims, awake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">O Lovers, arise and prepare!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">The nightingale sings on the branch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To wake up the blossoms; the creek</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Whispers a word to the fern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Who follows, his favor to seek;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The tulip is begging to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With the zephyr who kisses her cheek;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The face of the Mist is a-glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For Dawn mounts the Minaret to speak:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Open the road is, and safe;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">
						<em>No gates and no sentries are there;</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">
						<em>Awake, O ye Pilgrims, awake!</em>
					</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">
						<em>O Lovers, arise and prepare!</em>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Each moment a spirit is sent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With a message of mystery sealed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Each moment a spirit goes forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That the mystery might be revealed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And whenever the Dawn opes his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">A blind one on the wayfare is healed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Whenever a Lover appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The Night drops her star-studded shield;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Whenever a Lover is slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Blooms a flower in the world’s barley field.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And always the pangs of departure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Are wrought into torches that flare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Awake, O ye Pilgrims, awake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">O Lovers, arise and prepare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ere the saki was born, ere the vineyard existed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The cup, bright and brimful, enchanted our eyne;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere the tavern was built, we revelled and trysted</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the loved One and drank to his beauty divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We drink till we wander away from Self and Desire,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We drink till in drunkenness we, on his bosom, expire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We have known long ago all the raptures of madness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All the raptures of burning from childhood we know;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our soul is the soul of the Mother of gladness;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In our heart is the heart of the Father of woe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Transported and smitten, we wander with ne’er a complaint;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our story entrances the sinner, enraptures the saint.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Transported and smitten and drunk, we are thought to be mad;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Self-abandoned, unity-seeking, we’re the puzzle of fools;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the madman’s madness is varied in art, and the sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Piety-monger tickles his heart while he drools.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, mind not the strings of our robe, they were loosed in the revel;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They snapped when we drank with the saint and danced with the devil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There is nothing that we would conceal in the seeking;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our love is the sun and our passion its flame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dance-hall or tavern, we come not a-sneaking;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the right and the wrong of the world are the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you are a seeker, the blood of Hypocrisy shed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor be trammeled by Shame—take a poniard and cut off her head.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">For your sake we have come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">In the shape of a jar from the Sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For your sake we have come as Disgrace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">But glory incarnate are we.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">O think us not mortal, for we</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Are the light on the foam of the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">Still higher our rank, though we come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With the flute and the drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the veils of the world do we come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With the flute and the drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As vigilant warders we come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With the flute and the drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To call you to the Tavern we come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With the flute and the drum.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Perchance in our sleep we become unaware</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the circumstance strange of our birth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perchance a hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Divides the heaven and the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whether two worlds or a hundred, the loved One is all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only One do we seek, only One do we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Only One do we hear, do we see, de we call.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We come as the heroes and slaves of the Mighty, the Dear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We come as the mind and the soul of the violet Sphere.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">What place have your meat and your bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where we were first born, and first fed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Through our eye and our ear?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And now, without eyes we can see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Without tongues we can speak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Without ears we can hear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And when the clouds and the storms of the Mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Darken and shut out the skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">We kindle the torch of the Heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Which we give to the mighty and wise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the heart is the bird of a world made holy by song;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T is the love-lorn and love-guided bulbul the owls among.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when it wings all exultant its way over mountain and moor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It dreads nor the depths nor the heights nor the transcending lure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The heart is a treasure of gold in the dust-pit of things;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T is the rebec of love and of love forever it sings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T is the pearl in the sea and the phare on the shore of the Mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T is the ear of the deaf and the all-seeing eye of the blind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The heart is the maker of dreams, the alembic of power:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is the gate to all beauty, the key to the ivory tower;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’T is the crown of the Budha, the Christ, ’t is the sword of the Prophet;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T the flame in the temple of faith, and of reason, the flower.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The heart is the last star that leaves in the wake of the Night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the first star that ushers Aurora’s pageant of light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T is the first and the last ray of hope, the salvation of man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’T is our guide and our standard—the leader of our caravan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Hearken! the voice of our leader</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">In the dawn’s stillness and glow :</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4"><i xml:lang="ar-Latn">Allahu, Allahu!</i> We’re ready!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">The hour of departure is come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">The caravan ’s moving. Woh ho!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">We are bound for a country of wonder.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Wherever we stop on the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Is a feast for the heart, and a show;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Everywhere, too, is a tavern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">He who has led us thus far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Will lead us still further, we know:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">He opens to us every gate,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">He is the magnet and we</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Are but pieces of steel: woh ho!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Earthward the Magnet is moving!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Sweet scents from the curl of his tresses</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Are a-float on the breezes that blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">From the radiant peaks of the world:—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">As we fix our amorous gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Upon him more amorous we grow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">He moves in a soul-witching maze:—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Sight-seeing with us, who will go?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come! but come empty of purse and empty of hand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who travel with us shall not hunger or thirst, nor shall need;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the stores of the Master are open in every land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his Stewards, the Earth and the Sun, his wishes exceed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">He is our need,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Our staff and our creed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of our hope and despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">He’s the Sun and the Seed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come, but come empty of heart and empty of mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who travel with us shall not carry a thought or a care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For they who all things abandon, everything find,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And they who are drawn to the loved One, escape every snare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">He is our care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Our goal and our snare;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of our grief and our joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The bequeather and heir.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Grape-juice must ferment in the jar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Ere it turns into wine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the heart, in the jar of Desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To sparkle and shine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the face of the mirror that ’s clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of image and form,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the heart must be free e’en of shadows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To reflect the divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Brothers, our words are the petals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of the rose that eternally blooms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the thornless rose-bush of the Soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Which his image assumes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Brothers, our word is the truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Our standard the guide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Sufis are speaking, but he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In whom all things abide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, his parrots are we, sugar-chewing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And repeating his words evermore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the habitants rude of the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Camel-like thistles devour.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i5">Sugar-chewing we come for your sake;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Awake, O ye Pilgrims, awake!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">The cypress that once graced the grove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Is a-float on the river of Love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Lovers, the Veil of the Secret he rends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like light drops of water, he gently descends.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He walks on the face of the turbulent sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Driving before him the waves to their lee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a shepherd he calls, and his flock turned to foam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scurries and scampers, impatient for home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A moment, alas! When his face is revealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the wounds of the world are miraculously healed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A moment, alas! When his light disappears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world is submerged in an ocean of tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i6">We are the light that is spun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">For the firefly and the sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">We are the thread in the pearls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Of the sea and the tear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Make use of our pearls, and our foam, and our fire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For your sake we have come as Disgrace from the Sea;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For your sake we have come in the flesh of Desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But glory and beauty incarnate are we.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are the flowers in his Garden, the lights in his Hall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign on his Portal, but he, he is all,—he is all!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">The banquet, the host, and the guest,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The seeker, the sought, and the quest,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">All three,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Is he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">The given, the taker, the giver,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Love, the beloved, the lover,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">All three,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Is he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And we, to rejoin him, like torrents, escape through the hills;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No fetters, no walls can restrain us, no welfare, no ills.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Hope is sighing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Faith is crying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Creeds are dying,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">A clap of thunder</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Rents asunder</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Man’s little Wonder,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Idols tumble</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">In a jumble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Temples crumble,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Flames are sweeping ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Priests are reaping;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Kings are weeping,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Ashes cumber</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Flame and ember,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Who remember—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Night is crawling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Stars are falling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Souls are calling—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Orbs are winging.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Fire-bringing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">And of him singing,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Clove and nard, in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">His first garden.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Wait his pardon,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Every flower</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">In his bower</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Is Love’s dower,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">His compassion</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">And his passion</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">Are our fashion,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Allah, Allah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">Whirl, whirl, whirl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Till the world is the size of a pearl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Dance, dance, dance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Till the world ’s like the point of a lance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Soar, soar, soar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Till the world is no more.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
